[Team 5] Add Team 5 agent design (#21)
SOMAS2021/SOMAS-Final-Report: 007_team_5_agent_design/007_team_5_agent_design.tex

However, the agent will also be influneced by the behaviour of agents around it: if other agents are selfish then it will also be selfish. This can be thought of as a `tit-for-tat' strategy, but with enough HP, agents will be willing to `make the first move', with the insurance that if others do not follow then they have some buffer time to re-establish their own selfish behaviour.

An agent will maintain a low HP only if it is confident that other agents will allow it to survive by leaving enough food, through the signing of treaties to build trust. A tower that consists solely of Team 5 agents would require those at the top to be willing to decrease their own short-term satisfaction in order to give the best chance of survival for all agents, and trust others to do the same upon reshuffling.

> Section \ref{sec:team5-overview} provides an overview of the agent's parameters and strategy, Section \ref{sec:team5-messaging} describes the agent's communication strategy, Section \ref{sec:team5-memory} describes how the agent stores its social network and how it judges other agents, and Section \ref{sec:team5-treaties} describes how the Team 5 agent utilises treaties. Finally, Section \ref{sec:team5-experimentation} contains analysis of this agent and how it performs in a Tower consisting of itself alone and together with other agent types and Section \ref{sec:team5-conclusion} provides summarising remarks regarding the implementation of this agent type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Section \ref{sec:team5-overview} provides an overview of the agent's parameters and strategy, Section \ref{sec:team5-messaging} describes the agent's communication strategy, Section \ref{sec:team5-memory} describes how the agent stores its social network and how it judges other agents, and Section \ref{sec:team5-treaties} describes how the Team 5 agent utilises treaties. Finally, Section \ref{sec:team5-experimentation} contains analysis of this agent including how it performs in a Tower consisting of itself alone as well as together with other agent types and Section \ref{sec:team5-conclusion} provides summarising remarks regarding the implementation of this agent type.
```

Reviewer: I think this reads slightly better

\section{Agent Overview}
\label{sec:team5-overview}

\ToDo{Give better description of Run function}

The strategy employed by this agent aims to maximise its chances of survival while also considering those who have helped the agent in the past.

> At the beginning of each day, the agent's `personality' is updated using various parameters stored from previous days. These personality parameters are shown in Table \ref{tab:team5-personality}.

Reviewer: Parameters in the table are not exclusively personality parameters
```suggestion
At the beginning of each day, the agent's `personality' is updated using various parameters stored from previous days. These personality parameters, as well as some personality-dependent parameters, are shown in Table \ref{tab:team5-personality}.
```

\begin{table}
    \centering
\begin{tabular}%
    {| >{\raggedleft\arraybackslash}p{0.25\linewidth} | %
    >{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{0.65\linewidth} | %
    }
    \hline
    Selfishness          & Ranges from 0 to 10. Determines how much the agent will act for their own survival as opposed to the best interests of the surrounding agents\\
    \hline
    Last Meal            & How much the agent ate in their last meal\\
    \hline
    Days Since Last Meal & How many days since the agent last ate\\
    \hline
    % HP After Eating      & \\
    % \hline
    Aim HP               & Defines the goal HP the agent would like to reach at the end of the day\\
    \hline
    Attempt Food         & The amount of food the agent will attempt to take from the platform\\
    \hline
    Messaging Counter    & Determines which message type to send to which floor \\

>     % \hline

Reviewer: Line needed here if this block is to stay commented out

```suggestion
    \hline
```

    % Treaty Send Counter  & \\
    % \hline
    % Attempt To Eat       & \\
    % \hline
    Leadership           & A threshold value required for the agent to propose treaties\\
    \hline
    Social Memory        & Stores the information the agent learns about other agents, as well as its opinion of them (see Table \ref{tab:team5-memory})\\
    \hline
    Surrounding Agents   & A list of the agent's neighbours\\
    \hline
\end{tabular}

> \caption{The personality parameters of Team 5's agent}

Reviewer: Same as above

```suggestion
\caption{The personality-related parameters of Team 5's agent}
```

\label{tab:team5-personality}
\end{table}

At the start of each tick, the agent checks to see if it has received any messages and if so, will respond to these\footnote{Note that an agent can receive and respond to only one message per tick.}. The agent then sends out messages to other agents. The mechanism for messaging is described in Section \ref{sec:team5-messaging}.

\section{Messaging}\label{sec:team5-messaging}
Collaboration between different agents operating in a system requires communication. The motivation for messaging is to improve the agent's understanding of its surroundings, enable building of mutually beneficial relationships, and introduce collaboration and argeement between parties.

\subsection*{Strategy}\label{sec:team5-messaging-strategy}
The agent's approach to messaging is to adopt a ``passive observer'' role focussed on gathering information about other agents to organise itself with these agents in the tower. With more information at its disposal, the agent can make more informed decisions to balance its own individual utility with the collective utility of the agents in the tower.

\ToDo{choose whether to say 12 or 8 ticks to send all messages}

> The agent sends three types of messages targeting each of the agents two floors above and below its own floor; it therefore takes 12 ticks to send all of its messages. These messages ask for the HP, intended food intake, and actual food intake of other agents. The decision of which message type to send to which floor is controlled by the Messaging Counter described in Table \ref{tab:team5-personality}. This counter is incremented each tick, and reset either every 25 ticks or at the end of each day, whichever comes first. This ensures that the agent is requesting up-to-date information regularly for use in its decision making.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The agent sends three types of messages to each of the agents residing one or two floors above or below its own floor; it therefore takes 12 ticks to send all of its messages. These messages ask for the HP, intended food intake, and actual food intake of other agents. The decision of which message type to send to each floor is controlled by the Messaging Counter described in Table \ref{tab:team5-personality}. This counter is incremented each tick, and reset either every 25 ticks or at the end of each day, whichever comes first. This ensures that the agent is requesting up-to-date information regularly for use in its decision making.
```

Reviewer 2: Ben's suggestion works but also consider this:
```suggestion
The agent sends three types of messages to agents within two floors above and below its own floor; it therefore takes 12 ticks to send all of its messages. These messages ask for the HP, intended food intake, and actual food intake of other agents. The decision of which message type to send to each floor is controlled by the Messaging Counter described in Table \ref{tab:team5-personality}. This counter is incremented each tick, and reset either every 25 ticks or at the end of each day, whichever comes first. This ensures that the agent is requesting up-to-date information regularly for use in its decision making.
```

> The order of sent messages is:
> \begin{enumerate}
>     \item Ask for an agent's HP
>     \item Ask for an agent's previous food intake
>     % \item Ask for an agent's intended food intake
> \end{enumerate}

Reviewer: Probably known, but this should be changed to match the description on line 67

```suggestion
The order of sent messages is:
\begin{enumerate}
    \item Ask for an agent's HP
    \item Ask for an agent's previous food intake
    \item Ask for an agent's intended food intake
\end{enumerate}
```

The Team 5 agent first targets the agent immediately below it, then the agent immediately above, then two floors below, and finally the agent two floors above.

\section{Social Memory}\label{sec:team5-memory}
The agent stores the information gained from communication in its `memory': the information stored by this data structure is shown in Table \ref{tab:team5-memory}.

\begin{table}
    \centering
    \begin{tabular}%
        {| >{\raggedleft\arraybackslash}p{0.25\linewidth} | %
        >{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{0.65\linewidth} | %
        }
        \hline
        Agent ID & An agent's unique ID\\
        \hline

>         Agent HP & The agent's HP level\\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Agent HP & The agent's last known HP level\\
```

        \hline
        Food Taken & The amount of food the agent last took\\
        % \hline
        % Intended Food Intake & The amount of food the agent intends to take\\
        \hline
        Favour & The Team 5 agent's opinion of this agent\\
        \hline
        Days Since Last Seen & The number of days since the last message from this agent\\
        \hline
    \end{tabular}
    \caption{Team 5 Agent Memory}
    \label{tab:team5-memory}
\end{table}

> This memory allows the agent to construct a social network of agents in the tower and evaluate others based on these parameters. This consequently leads to the idea of favour, a metric the Team 5 agent uses to judge other agents. If more than five days have passed since the agent's last interaction with someone, then the memory of that agent is reset. This prevents the agent from using out-of-date information in its calculation and also allows for the removal of dead agents from its memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This memory allows the agent to construct a social network of agents in the tower and evaluate others based on these parameters. This consequently leads to the idea of favour, a metric the Team 5 agent uses to judge other agents. If more than five days have passed since the agent's last interaction with an agent in its social memory, then the social memory regarding that agent is reset. This prevents the agent from using out-of-date information in its calculation and also allows for the removal of dead agents from the social memory.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This memory allows the agent to construct a social network of agents in the tower and evaluate others based on these parameters. This consequently leads to the idea of favour, a metric the Team 5 agent uses to judge other agents. If more than five days have passed since the agent's last interaction with another agent, then the memory of that agent is reset. This prevents the agent from using out-of-date information in its calculation and also allows for the removal of dead agents from its memory.
```

\subsection*{Favour}\label{sec:team5-favour}
The favour metric quantifies the agent's opinion of others in the tower. It is bounded between 0 and 10, and in a single tick can either increase by 1, decrease by 3, or stay the same:

\begin{align*}
    \texttt{hpScoreOther} &= -1 \times \frac{\texttt{otherHP}^{1.7} \times \texttt{foodTaken}^{1.3}}{\texttt{maxHP}^3}\\
    \texttt{hpScoreSelf} &= \frac{\texttt{ownHP}^{1.7}\times\texttt{ownAttemptFood}^{1.3}}{\texttt{maxHP}^3}\\
    \texttt{judgement} &= 100 \times (\texttt{hpScoreOther} + \texttt{hpScoreSelf})\\
    \texttt{unboundedFavour} &= \begin{cases}
        \texttt{originalFavour} + 1, \quad\hfill \texttt{judgement} &> 0.075\\
        \texttt{originalFavour} + \max{\left(\frac{\texttt{judgement}}{2}, -3\right)}, \quad\hfill\texttt{judgement} &< -2
    \end{cases}\\
    \texttt{favour} &= \begin{cases}
        0, \quad\hfill \texttt{unboundedFavour} &< 0\\
        \texttt{unboundedFavour}, \quad 0 \leq \texttt{unboundedFavour} &\leq 10\\
        10, \quad\hfill \texttt{unboundedFavour} &> 10
    \end{cases}\\
\end{align*}

> Measuring favour allows the agent to act accordingly to how other agents are behaving around it, while taking on a passive conformist approach to decision making. If the agent views others around it more favourably, then it eats less food and aims for a lower HP in hopes of improving collective utility. The agent is also more likely to propose treaties to, and accept treaties from, highly favoured agents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Measuring favour allows the agent to act accordingly to how other agents are behaving around it, while taking on a passive conformist approach to decision making. If the agent views others around it more favourably, then it eats less food and aims for a lower HP in the hope of improving collective utility. The agent is also more likely to propose treaties to, and accept treaties from, highly favoured agents.
```

Reviewer 2: I think the original was fine. Subject does X in hope(s) of achieving Y - this sounds more natural imo. Unless you want to say "... aims for a lower HP with the hope of ..." then this sounds right

For agents which have low favour, the Team 5 agent maintains its passiveness and does not ``punish'' them by, for example, taking more food than is necessary. The effect of ``punishing'' an agent propagates to all floors below the agent and is therefore not deemed an appropriate course of action. Instead, the agent strives to behave positively if surrounding agents also demonstrate positive behaviour.

It should also be noted that while the Team 5 agent computes favour for agents both above and below its floor, a positive favour value for agents above is helpful to that agent only if they are moved to a floor below the Team 5 agent following a reshuffle: this is because there is no way to reward the behaviour of an agent above you in the tower.

\section{Treaties}\label{sec:team5-treaties}
The Team 5 agent's treaty strategy consists of three main parts:
\begin{enumerate}
    \item Deciding whether to accept or reject proposed treaties
    \item When to propose a treaty
    \item What to propose as a treaty
\end{enumerate}

\subsection*{Responding to Proposed Treaties}\label{sec:team5-treaties-response}
A proposed treaty is always rejected if:
\begin{itemize}

>     \item It conflicts with any other active treaties. A treaty is considered to conflict with another treaty if they could ever cause the agent to incompatible actions (for example, an agent cannot leave more than five units of food and fewer than four units of food at the same time).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \item It conflicts with any other active treaties. A treaty is considered to conflict with another treaty if they could ever cause the agent to take incompatible actions. For example, an agent cannot leave more than five units of food and fewer than four units of food at the same time.
```

Reviewer 2: +1

    \item It is badly formed. For example, a treaty which requires the agent to leave more than 100\% of the food on the platform is badly formed.
    \item \ToDo{Check this one} It requires agents to leave less than a certain amount of food on the platform, as this is never advantageous to the tower as a whole.

>     \item \ToDo{Check this one} It requires the agent to leave an exact amount of food on the platform, as this would result ina ll but one of the agents signed up to the treaty to take no food each day.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \item \ToDo{Check this one} It requires the agent to leave an exact amount of food on the platform, as this would result in all but one of the agents signed up to the treaty to take no food each day.
```

>     \item It makes a request based on low HP, low amounts of food on the platform, or a low floor, as in these conditions the agent will already be desperate for survival, so will not want to be further constrained by a treaty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \item It makes a request based on low HP, low amounts of food on the platform, or a low down floor, as in these conditions the agent will already be desperate for survival, so will not want to be further constrained by a treaty.
```

Reviewer 2: I think "low floor" already conveys what we want to express here

    \item \ToDo{Check this one} It makes a request based on HP where the threshold is within the ``weak'' or ``critical'' HP bands, as this means the agent could become critical or die as a result of following the treaty.
    \item \ToDo{Check this one} It would require the agent to take less food than is required to avoid entering the ``critical'' HP band.

> \end{itemize}

Reviewer: For the ToDos here, these are definitely implemented - I read them directly from the code

Author: This one was more about the wording I think - could probably be worded better

If the treaty does not meet any of the above conditions, the \texttt{decision} value is then computed as:
\[\texttt{decision} = 6 - \texttt{selfishness} + \texttt{proposerFavour} - \frac{\texttt{treatyDuration}}{3}\]

This calculation is based on the following considerations:
\begin{itemize}
    \item Selfish agents will always be less likely to sign treaties
    \item The proposing agent is more likely to be trusted if the receiving agent views them more favourably

>     \item Longer treaties are viewed more negatively because factors such as the receiving agent's opinion of the proposer and the agent's selfishness can change over time, meaning the same treaty could be viewed less favourably in future. Therefore, the agent should avoid constraining its actions to satisfy an agent of which it has a negative opinion.

Reviewer: I don't really get the last sentence, but I think it needs changing to this

```suggestion
    \item Longer treaties are viewed more negatively because factors such as the receiving agent's opinion of the proposer and the agent's selfishness can change over time, meaning the same treaty could be viewed less favourably in future. Therefore, the agent should avoid constraining its actions to satisfy an agent of which it could form a negative opinion.
```

Reviewer 2: Disagree with this suggestion, makes sense imo (if my understanding is correct lol). Essentially the agent should avoid constraining its action to satisfy agents that it holds negatives opinions against

\end{itemize}

If the \texttt{decision} value is positive, the treaty is accepted.

\subsection*{Proposing Treaties}\label{sec:team5-treaties-proposal}
At the start of each day, the agent checks whether it has become a `leader': if it has, then the agent proposes a treaty. Whether an agent becomes a leader or not is based on:
\begin{itemize}
    \item The agent's selfishness: a selfish agent is less likely to propose treaties

>     \item The agent's floor: agents higher up in the tower are more likely to propose treaties. This is because agents higher up in the tower have more access to food and therefore have more control over the food available to those below them. This control means these agents are in a better position to affect change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \item The agent's floor: agents higher up in the tower are more likely to propose treaties. This is because agents higher up in the tower have more access to food and therefore have more control over the food available to those below them. This control means these agents are in a better position to effect change.
```

    \item The agent's \texttt{leadership} threshold: this is randomly set during the agent's initialisation and those with a lower leadership threshold are more likely to become leaders.
\end{itemize}
The leadership value is calculated by:
\[ \texttt{leadership} = x - \texttt{selfishness} - \texttt{agentFloor}\]

> The variable $x$ is a random number between 3 and 12, inclusive. If $leadership$ is greater than the agent's leadership threshold, then the agent becomes a leader and proposes a treaty.

Reviewer: will make it appear the same as in the equation
```suggestion
The variable $x$ is a random number between 3 and 12, inclusive. If \texttt{leadership} is greater than the agent's leadership threshold, then the agent becomes a leader and proposes a treaty.
```

\end{enumerate}

\subsection*{Responding to Proposed Treaties}\label{sec:team5-treaties-response}
A proposed treaty is always rejected if:
\begin{itemize}
    \item It conflicts with any other active treaties. A treaty is considered to conflict with another treaty if they could ever cause the agent to incompatible actions (for example, an agent cannot leave more than five units of food and fewer than four units of food at the same time).
    \item It is badly formed. For example, a treaty which requires the agent to leave more than 100\% of the food on the platform is badly formed.
    \item \ToDo{Check this one} It requires agents to leave less than a certain amount of food on the platform, as this is never advantageous to the tower as a whole.
    \item \ToDo{Check this one} It requires the agent to leave an exact amount of food on the platform, as this would result ina ll but one of the agents signed up to the treaty to take no food each day.
    \item It makes a request based on low HP, low amounts of food on the platform, or a low floor, as in these conditions the agent will already be desperate for survival, so will not want to be further constrained by a treaty.

>     \item \ToDo{Check this one} It makes a request based on HP where the threshold is within the ``weak'' or ``critical'' HP bands, as this means the agent could become critical or die as a result of following the treaty.

Reviewer 2: Feel free to disagree, bands may indeed be more accurate here but HP often used in conjunction with thresholds
```suggestion
    \item \ToDo{Check this one} It makes a request based on HP where the threshold is within the ``weak'' or ``critical'' HP thresholds, as this means the agent could become critical or die as a result of following the treaty.
```

\begin{equation}\label{eq:team5-treaty-hp-threshold}
    \texttt{hpThreshold} = \texttt{aimHP} - \frac{\texttt{aimHP} - \texttt{WeakLevel}}{10}\times\left(\texttt{leadership} - \texttt{leadershipThreshold}\right)
\end{equation}

\section{Experimentation}\label{sec:team5-experimentation}
This section focuses on how the agent's performance varies with changes in its environment.

\subsection*{Homogeneous Tower Experiments}
To evaluate the self-organisation abilities of the Team 5 agent, simulations were run with the agent in variations of a homogeneous tower (i.e. a tower that contains agents of only one type). The agent has been evaluated on three main metrics:
\begin{enumerate}
    \item The number of deaths
    \item The average utility
    \item Whether self-organisation was achieved.
\end{enumerate}

> We have defined self-organisation as when all agents take only what they need to survive and there are little to no deaths beyond a certain point in time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Self-organisation' has been defined as when all agents take only what they need to survive and there are little to no deaths beyond a certain point in time.
```

\subsubsection*{Food Per Agent On Platform}

> The baseline experiment for testing was to vary the amount of food per agent available on the platform; we expect that more food being available will result in fewer deaths. In this experiment, simulations were run for 100 simulation days, with a reshuffle period of 7 days and 50 agents in the tower and repeated three times, with the average of these runs taken. Figure \ref{fig:team5-deaths-utility-food-per-agent} shows that the number of deaths decreases and average utility increases as we increase the amount of food available.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The baseline experiment for testing was to vary the amount of food per agent available on the platform; it was expected that having more available food would result in fewer deaths. In this experiment, simulations were run for 100 simulation days, with a reshuffle period of 7 days and 50 agents in the tower and repeated three times, with the average of these runs taken. Figure \ref{fig:team5-deaths-utility-food-per-agent} shows that the number of deaths decreases and average utility increases as we increase the amount of food available.
```

> When the ratio of food to agent is greater than 9, the agents are able to self-organise within 100 days, and typically do so within 70 days. When food availability is less than this, the agents did not achieve self-organisation, however interestingly, it was observed that more treaties were accepted than rejected. This shows that the agents recognise theneed to self-organise and are willing to make attemps to do so. It is possible that they did not achieve self-organisation because agents died too quickly to reach agreements among enough agents for this to be successful.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the ratio of food to number of agents was greater than 9, the agents were able to self-organise within 100 days, and typically do so within 70 days. When food availability was less than this, the agents did not achieve self-organisation. However, it was interesting to observe that more treaties were accepted than rejected. This showed that the agents recognised the need to self-organise and were willing to make attempts to do so. It is possible that they did not achieve self-organisation because agents died too quickly to reach agreements among enough agents for this to be successful.
```

It was found that, with the food per agent ratio set to 2, there appeared to be a threshold value of approximately 18 agents were organisation was far less likely to occur within the early days of the tower. Further testing showed that this threshold increases with the amount of food available per agent. Figure \ref{fig:team5-20agents-2food} shows the results of a simulation where 20 agents managed to organised themselves.

\begin{figure}
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=0.8\textwidth]{007_team_5_agent_design/20-agent-2-food.png}
    \caption{Cumulative deaths per day for a 500 day simulation of 20 Team 5 agents with 2 food per agent}
    \label{fig:team5-20agents-2food}
\end{figure}

> Given these results, we considered whether a homogeneous tower of Team 5 agents would achieve organisation given an infinite amount of time regardless of the number of agents provided at least two food per agent was available. We predict that this is not possible: every time an agent is replaced in the tower, its replacement is initialised with maximum selfishness and has no social network. It takes time for agents to build trust with each other but deaths occur too quickly for this happen if the settings of the tower are too strict.

Reviewer 2: Remove "we"s, but hard time trying to fix the sentence lol. Hence this
```suggestion
The results naturally led to the consideration of whether a homogeneous tower of Team 5 agents would achieve organisation given an infinite amount of time regardless of the number of agents provided at least two food per agent was available. It is hypothesised that this is not possible: every time an agent is replaced in the tower, its replacement is initialised with maximum selfishness and has no social network. It takes time for agents to build trust with each other but deaths occur too quickly for this happen if the settings of the tower are too strict.
```

\chapter{Team 5 Agent Design}\label{team_5_agent_design}

The Team 5 agent operates on the basis that upon entering the tower, the need to ensure its own survival is its only aim and therefore the agent should maximise its own HP whenever given the opportunity to do so. When there is not enough food to fully satisfy all agents, the agent alters its behaviour to best increase its long-term survival.

This situation can be thought of as a `hawk-dove' game where it is beneficial for all agents to take less food but any single agent who does so is worse off if no other agents follow suit. Communication is key to breaking out of this situation. This agent will attempt to establish relationships with surrounding agents -- the agent has parameters to judge other agents and also attempts to learn about the tower -- and encourage behaviours that benefit the overall tower utility.

> However, the agent will also be influneced by the behaviour of agents around it: if other agents are selfish then it will also be selfish. This can be thought of as a `tit-for-tat' strategy, but with enough HP, agents will be willing to `make the first move', with the insurance that if others do not follow then they have some buffer time to re-establish their own selfish behaviour.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
However, the agent will also be influenced by the behaviour of agents around it: if other agents are selfish then it will also be selfish. This can be thought of as a `tit-for-tat' strategy, but with enough HP, agents will be willing to `make the first move', with the insurance that if others do not follow then they have some buffer time to re-establish their own selfish behaviour.
```

An agent will maintain a low HP only if it is confident that other agents will allow it to survive by leaving enough food, through the signing of treaties to build trust. A tower that consists solely of Team 5 agents would require those at the top to be willing to decrease their own short-term satisfaction in order to give the best chance of survival for all agents, and trust others to do the same upon reshuffling.

> Section \ref{sec:team5-overview} provides an overview of the agent's parameters and strategy, Section \ref{sec:team5-messaging} describes the agent's communication strategy, Section \ref{sec:team5-memory} describes how the agent stores its social network and how it judges other agents, and Section \ref{sec:team5-treaties} describes how the Team 5 agent utilises treaties. Finally, Section \ref{sec:team5-experimentation} contains analysis of this agent including how it performs in a Tower consisting of itself alone as well as together with other agent types and Section \ref{sec:team5-conclusion} provides summarising remarks regarding the implementation of this agent type.

Reviewer: I don't think this is capitalised anywhere else
```suggestion
Section \ref{sec:team5-overview} provides an overview of the agent's parameters and strategy, Section \ref{sec:team5-messaging} describes the agent's communication strategy, Section \ref{sec:team5-memory} describes how the agent stores its social network and how it judges other agents, and Section \ref{sec:team5-treaties} describes how the Team 5 agent utilises treaties. Finally, Section \ref{sec:team5-experimentation} contains analysis of this agent including how it performs in a tower consisting of itself alone as well as together with other agent types and Section \ref{sec:team5-conclusion} provides summarising remarks regarding the implementation of this agent type.
```

    \hline
    Last Meal            & How much the agent ate in their last meal\\
    \hline
    Days Since Last Meal & How many days since the agent last ate\\
    \hline
    % HP After Eating      & \\
    % \hline
    Aim HP               & Defines the goal HP the agent would like to reach at the end of the day\\
    \hline
    Attempt Food         & The amount of food the agent will attempt to take from the platform\\
    \hline
    Messaging Counter    & Determines which message type to send to which floor \\
    \hline
    % Treaty Send Counter  & \\
    % \hline
    % Attempt To Eat       & \\
    % \hline
    Leadership           & A threshold value required for the agent to propose treaties\\
    \hline
    Social Memory        & Stores the information the agent learns about other agents, as well as its opinion of them (see Table \ref{tab:team5-memory})\\
    \hline
    Surrounding Agents   & A list of the agent's neighbours\\
    \hline
\end{tabular}
\caption{The personality parameters of Team 5's agent}
\label{tab:team5-personality}
\end{table}

> At the start of each tick, the agent checks to see if it has received any messages and if so, will respond to these\footnote{Note that an agent can receive and respond to only one message per tick.}. The agent then sends out messages to other agents. The mechanism for messaging is described in Section \ref{sec:team5-messaging}.

Reviewer: have tried to address todo:

```suggestion
The strategy employed by this agent aims to maximise its chances of survival while also considering those who have helped the agent in the past. The high-level actions of the agent are as follows:

\begin{itemize}
    \item At the beginning of each day, the agent's `personality' is updated using various parameters stored from previous days. These personality parameters are shown in Table \ref{tab:team5-personality}.

    \item At the start of each tick, the agent checks to see if it has received any messages and if so, will respond to these\footnote{Note that an agent can receive and respond to only one message per tick.}. The agent then sends out messages to other agents. The mechanism for messaging is described in Section \ref{sec:team5-messaging}.
\end{itemize}
\begin{table}
    \centering
\begin{tabular}%
    {| >{\raggedleft\arraybackslash}p{0.25\linewidth} | %
    >{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{0.65\linewidth} | %
    }
    \hline
    Selfishness          & Ranges from 0 to 10. Determines how much the agent will act for their own survival as opposed to the best interests of the surrounding agents\\
    \hline
    Last Meal            & How much the agent ate in their last meal\\
    \hline
    Days Since Last Meal & How many days since the agent last ate\\
    \hline
    % HP After Eating      & \\
    % \hline
    Aim HP               & Defines the goal HP the agent would like to reach at the end of the day\\
    \hline
    Attempt Food         & The amount of food the agent will attempt to take from the platform\\
    \hline
    Messaging Counter    & Determines which message type to send to which floor \\
    \hline
    % Treaty Send Counter  & \\
    % \hline
    % Attempt To Eat       & \\
    % \hline
    Leadership           & A threshold value required for the agent to propose treaties\\
    \hline
    Social Memory        & Stores the information the agent learns about other agents, as well as its opinion of them (see Table \ref{tab:team5-memory})\\
    \hline
    Surrounding Agents   & A list of the agent's neighbours\\
    \hline
\end{tabular}
\caption{The personality parameters of Team 5's agent}
\label{tab:team5-personality}
\end{table}

```

Reviewer: idk why this diff is so whack aha

> At the start of each tick, the agent checks to see if it has received any messages and if so, will respond to these\footnote{Note that an agent can receive and respond to only one message per tick.}. The agent then sends out messages to other agents. The mechanism for messaging is described in Section \ref{sec:team5-messaging}.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Each of these personality parameters are linked, with each of them contributing to the agent deciding how much food it will attempt to eat that day. This is explained in further detail in sections to follow.

At the start of each tick, the agent checks to see if it has received any messages and if so, will respond to these\footnote{Note that an agent can receive and respond to only one message per tick.}. The agent then sends out messages to other agents. The mechanism for messaging is described in Section \ref{sec:team5-messaging}.
```

\section{Messaging}\label{sec:team5-messaging}

> Collaboration between different agents operating in a system requires communication. The motivation for messaging is to improve the agent's understanding of its surroundings, enable building of mutually beneficial relationships, and introduce collaboration and argeement between parties.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Collaboration between different agents operating in a system requires communication. The motivation for messaging is to improve the agent's understanding of its surroundings, enable the building of mutually beneficial relationships, and introduce collaboration and agreement between parties.
```

\subsection*{Strategy}\label{sec:team5-messaging-strategy}
The agent's approach to messaging is to adopt a ``passive observer'' role focussed on gathering information about other agents to organise itself with these agents in the tower. With more information at its disposal, the agent can make more informed decisions to balance its own individual utility with the collective utility of the agents in the tower.

\ToDo{choose whether to say 12 or 8 ticks to send all messages}\\
\ToDo{choose whether to include intended food intake in messages}\\
The agent sends three types of messages to each of the agents residing one or two floors above and below its own floor; it therefore takes 12 ticks to send all of its messages. These messages ask for the HP, intended food intake, and actual food intake of other agents. The decision of which message type to send to which floor is controlled by the Messaging Counter described in Table \ref{tab:team5-personality}. This counter is incremented each tick, and reset either every 25 ticks or at the end of each day, whichever comes first. This ensures that the agent is requesting up-to-date information regularly for use in its decision making.

> 

Reviewer: I might be missing the issue, but we definitely send all three message types?

```suggestion
The agent sends three types of messages to each of the agents residing one or two floors above and below its own floor; it therefore takes 12 ticks to send all of its messages. These messages ask for the HP, intended food intake, and actual food intake of other agents. The decision of which message type to send to which floor is controlled by the Messaging Counter described in Table \ref{tab:team5-personality}. This counter is incremented each tick, and reset either every 25 ticks or at the end of each day, whichever comes first. This ensures that the agent is requesting up-to-date information regularly for use in its decision making.

```

Reviewer 2: consider: \texttt for {Messaging Counter}

The order of sent messages is:
\begin{enumerate}
    \item Ask for an agent's HP
    \item Ask for an agent's previous food intake
    \item Ask for an agent's intended food intake
\end{enumerate}

> The Team 5 agent first targets the agent immediately below it, then the agent immediately above, then two floors below, and finally the agent two floors above.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Team 5 agent first targets the agent immediately below it, then the agent immediately above, then two floors below, and finally the agent two floors above. 

In addition to sending out requests for information, the agent will also accept any uninitiated state messages it receives, aiming to gain the largest amount of knowledge that it can. This includes messages in which the agent is not the intended final destination, in this instance the agent will read the information contained in the message before passing it on.
```

\section{Social Memory}\label{sec:team5-memory}
The agent stores the information gained from communication in its `memory': the information stored by this data structure is shown in Table \ref{tab:team5-memory}.

\begin{table}
    \centering
    \begin{tabular}%
        {| >{\raggedleft\arraybackslash}p{0.25\linewidth} | %
        >{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{0.65\linewidth} | %
        }
        \hline
        Agent ID & An agent's unique ID\\
        \hline
        Agent HP & The agent's last known HP level\\
        \hline
        Food Taken & The amount of food the agent last took\\
        % \hline
        % Intended Food Intake & The amount of food the agent intends to take\\
        \hline
        Favour & The Team 5 agent's opinion of this agent\\
        \hline
        Days Since Last Seen & The number of days since the last message from this agent\\
        \hline
    \end{tabular}
    \caption{Team 5 Agent Memory}
    \label{tab:team5-memory}
\end{table}

> This memory allows the agent to construct a social network of agents in the tower and evaluate others based on these parameters. This consequently leads to the idea of favour, a metric the Team 5 agent uses to judge other agents. If more than five days have passed since the agent's last interaction with another agent, then the memory of that agent is reset. This prevents the agent from using out-of-date information in its calculation and also allows for the removal of dead agents from its memory.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This memory allows the agent to construct a social network of agents in the tower and evaluate others based on these parameters. This consequently leads to the idea of favour, a metric the Team 5 agent uses to judge other agents. If more than five days have passed since the agent's last interaction with another agent, then the knowledge gained of that agent is reset, with the favour value being kept. This prevents the agent from using out-of-date information in its calculation while still allowing the opinion formed of the agent to be retained indefinitely.
```
Change suggested because the agent doesn't remove dead agents from its memory, it never actually knows if another agent has died. Also, I think it needs to be made clearer that the total memory isn't reset, just the knowledge parameters of the memory.

\subsection*{Favour}\label{sec:team5-favour}
The favour metric quantifies the agent's opinion of others in the tower. It is bounded between 0 and 10, and in a single tick can either increase by 1, decrease by 3, or stay the same:

> \begin{align*}

Reviewer 3: Could you explain the use of the exponents?

    \texttt{hpScoreOther} &= -1 \times \frac{\texttt{otherHP}^{1.7} \times \texttt{foodTaken}^{1.3}}{\texttt{maxHP}^3}\\
    \texttt{hpScoreSelf} &= \frac{\texttt{ownHP}^{1.7}\times\texttt{ownAttemptFood}^{1.3}}{\texttt{maxHP}^3}\\
    \texttt{judgement} &= 100 \times (\texttt{hpScoreOther} + \texttt{hpScoreSelf})\\
    \texttt{unboundedFavour} &= \begin{cases}
        \texttt{originalFavour} + 1, \quad\hfill \texttt{judgement} &> 0.075\\
        \texttt{originalFavour} + \max{\left(\frac{\texttt{judgement}}{2}, -3\right)}, \quad\hfill\texttt{judgement} &< -2
    \end{cases}\\
    \texttt{favour} &= \begin{cases}
        0, \quad\hfill \texttt{unboundedFavour} &< 0\\
        \texttt{unboundedFavour}, \quad 0 \leq \texttt{unboundedFavour} &\leq 10\\
        10, \quad\hfill \texttt{unboundedFavour} &> 10
    \end{cases}\\
\end{align*}

> Measuring favour allows the agent to act accordingly to how other agents are behaving around it, while taking on a passive conformist approach to decision making. If the agent views others around it more favourably, then it eats less food and aims for a lower HP in hopes of improving collective utility. The agent is also more likely to propose treaties to, and accept treaties from, highly favoured agents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Measuring favour allows the agent to act according to how other agents are behaving around it, while taking on a passive conformist approach to decision making. If the agent views others around it more favourably, then it eats less food and aims for a lower HP in hopes of improving collective utility. The agent is also more likely to propose treaties to, and accept treaties from, highly favoured agents.
```

> Measuring favour allows the agent to act accordingly to how other agents are behaving around it, while taking on a passive conformist approach to decision making. If the agent views others around it more favourably, then it eats less food and aims for a lower HP in hopes of improving collective utility. The agent is also more likely to propose treaties to, and accept treaties from, highly favoured agents.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Positive changes in favour need to occur slowly, while negative changes can occur more quickly. This is to reflect human behaviour regarding trust. Trust can be lost more easily than it is gained.

Measuring favour allows the agent to act accordingly to how other agents are behaving around it, while taking on a passive conformist approach to decision making. If the agent views others around it more favourably, then it eats less food and aims for a lower HP in hopes of improving collective utility. The agent is also more likely to propose treaties to, and accept treaties from, highly favoured agents.
```

I'm not overly pleased with the way I've phrased that sentence, but I think we should include something to say why we chose to have favour change in the way that it does.

Reviewer 2: These seem kinda absolute or strongly opinionated - do we need to cite anything for this? (Ideally citing less is better imo) Perhaps we can just phrase it to sound more like assumptions

> Measuring favour allows the agent to act according to how other agents are behaving around it, while taking on a passive conformist approach to decision making. If the agent views others around it more favourably, then it eats less food and aims for a lower HP in hopes of improving collective utility. The agent is also more likely to propose treaties to, and accept treaties from, highly favoured agents.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Measuring favour allows the agent to act according to how other agents are behaving around it, while taking on a passive conformist approach to decision making. If the agent views others around it more favourably, then it eats less food and aims for a lower HP in the hope of improving collective utility. The agent is also more likely to propose treaties to, and accept treaties from, highly favoured agents.
```

> For agents which have low favour, the Team 5 agent maintains its passiveness and does not ``punish'' them by, for example, taking more food than is necessary. The effect of ``punishing'' an agent propagates to all floors below the agent and is therefore not deemed an appropriate course of action. Instead, the agent strives to behave positively if surrounding agents also demonstrate positive behaviour.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For agents which have low favour, the Team 5 agent maintains its passiveness and does not ``punish'' them by, for example, taking more food than is necessary. The effect of ``punishing'' an agent propagates to all floors below the agent and is therefore deemed an inappropriate course of action. Instead, the agent strives to behave positively if surrounding agents also demonstrate positive behaviour.
```

    \item It is badly formed. For example, a treaty which requires the agent to leave more than 100\% of the food on the platform is badly formed.
    \item \ToDo{Check this one} It requires agents to leave less than a certain amount of food on the platform, as this is never advantageous to the tower as a whole.
    \item \ToDo{Check this one} It requires the agent to leave an exact amount of food on the platform, as this would result in all but one of the agents signed up to the treaty to take no food each day.
    \item It makes a request based on low HP, low amounts of food on the platform, or a low floor, as in these conditions the agent will already be desperate for survival, so will not want to be further constrained by a treaty.
    \item \ToDo{Check this one} It makes a request based on HP where the threshold is within the ``weak'' or ``critical'' HP bands, as this means the agent could become critical or die as a result of following the treaty.

>     \item \ToDo{Check this one} It would require the agent to take less food than is required to avoid entering the ``critical'' HP band.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \item It requires agents to leave less than a certain amount of food on the platform, as this is never advantageous to the tower as a whole.
    \item It requires the agent to leave an exact amount of food on the platform, as this would result in all but one of the agents signed up to the treaty to take no food each day.
    \item It makes a request based on low HP, low amounts of food on the platform, or a low floor, as in these conditions the agent will already be desperate for survival, so will not want to be further constrained by a treaty.
    \item It makes a request based on HP where the threshold is within the ``weak'' or ``critical'' HP bands, as this means the agent could become critical or die as a result of following the treaty.
    \item It would require the agent to take less food than is required to avoid entering the ``critical'' HP band.
```

\[\texttt{decision} = 6 - \texttt{selfishness} + \texttt{proposerFavour} - \frac{\texttt{treatyDuration}}{3}\]

This calculation is based on the following considerations:
\begin{itemize}
    \item Selfish agents will always be less likely to sign treaties
    \item The proposing agent is more likely to be trusted if the receiving agent views them more favourably
    \item Longer treaties are viewed more negatively because factors such as the receiving agent's opinion of the proposer and the agent's selfishness can change over time, meaning the same treaty could be viewed less favourably in future. Therefore, the agent should avoid constraining its actions to satisfy an agent of which it could form a negative opinion.
\end{itemize}

If the \texttt{decision} value is positive, the treaty is accepted.

\subsection*{Proposing Treaties}\label{sec:team5-treaties-proposal}
At the start of each day, the agent checks whether it has become a `leader': if it has, then the agent proposes a treaty. Whether an agent becomes a leader or not is based on:
\begin{itemize}
    \item The agent's selfishness: a selfish agent is less likely to propose treaties

>     \item The agent's floor: agents higher up in the tower are more likely to propose treaties. This is because agents higher up in the tower have more access to food and therefore have more control over the food available to those below them. This control means these agents are in a better position to effect change.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    \item The agent's floor: agents higher up in the tower are more likely to propose treaties. This is because the floor an agent is on is the only indicator of social hierarchy within the tower, as those at the top have first choice on the amount of food they eat and also control the amount of food agent below them have access to. This control means these agents are in a better position to effect change. 
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    \item The agent's floor: agents higher up in the tower are more likely to propose treaties. This is because an agent's floor is the only indicator of social hierarchy within the tower, as those at the top have priority on the amount of food the eat and therefore control the amount of food available to agents below them. This control means these agents are in a better position to effect change.
```

    \item The agent's \texttt{leadership} threshold: this is randomly set during the agent's initialisation and those with a lower leadership threshold are more likely to become leaders.
\end{itemize}
The leadership value is calculated by:
\[ \texttt{leadership} = x - \texttt{selfishness} - \texttt{agentFloor}\]
The variable $x$ is a random number between 3 and 12, inclusive. If \texttt{leadership} is greater than the agent's leadership threshold, then the agent becomes a leader and proposes a treaty.

The proposed treaty is always that agents whose HP is greater than or equal to a certain value should always leave 100\% of the food on the platform, and always lasts for five days. The threshold value for HP is calculated using Equation \ref{eq:team5-treaty-hp-threshold}. Note that in this equation, \texttt{WeakLevel} refers to the threshold between the ``critical'' and ``weak'' HP states.

\begin{equation}\label{eq:team5-treaty-hp-threshold}
    \texttt{hpThreshold} = \texttt{aimHP} - \frac{\texttt{aimHP} - \texttt{WeakLevel}}{10}\times\left(\texttt{leadership} - \texttt{leadershipThreshold}\right)
\end{equation}

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

Of the treaties types available to agent's in the tower, it was decided that the HP limiting treaties described above were the most suitable for composing resource management based agreements between agents. This is because treaties based directly on food amounts were to leave a percentage or amount of food. This made it difficult to construct treaties that controlled the amount of food agent took in a fair manner. While food is the main resource in the tower, it was decided that HP could be viewed as a secondary resource, being directly affected by the main resource and reflecting the allocations of the main resource. 

```

I think it would be suitable to mention why we chose to propose the treaty type that we did.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

It was decided that of the available treaty types, HP limiting treaties were the most suitable for composing resource management based agreements between agents. This is because treaties based directly on food amounts agreed to leave a certain amount of food. This made it difficult to construct treaties that controlled the amount of food agent took in a fair manner. While food is the main resource in the tower, it was agreed that HP could be viewed as a secondary resource, being directly affected by the main resource and reflecting the allocation of the main resource. 

```

\section{Experimentation}\label{sec:team5-experimentation}

> This section focuses on how the agent's performance varies with changes in its environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section focuses on the agent's performance, and how this varies with changes in its environment.
```

\subsection*{Homogeneous Tower Experiments}
To evaluate the self-organisation abilities of the Team 5 agent, simulations were run with the agent in variations of a homogeneous tower (i.e. a tower that contains agents of only one type). The agent has been evaluated on three main metrics:
\begin{enumerate}
    \item The number of deaths
    \item The average utility
    \item Whether self-organisation was achieved.
\end{enumerate}

> Self-organisation has been defined in this case to be when all agents take only what they need to survive and there are little to no deaths beyond a certain point in time.

Reviewer 4: Cyrus mentioned having an consistent definition of stability throughout the report, so we need to consider that here.

Reviewer 5: This is probably fine if you use this definition of Self-organisation in your part if you want. However, this definition does not apply to all team I think

\subsubsection*{Food Per Agent On Platform}
The baseline experiment for testing was to vary the amount of food per agent available on the platform; it was expected that having more food available would result in fewer deaths. In this experiment, simulations were run for 100 simulation days, with a reshuffle period of 7 days and 50 agents in the tower and repeated three times, with the average of these runs taken. Figure \ref{fig:team5-deaths-utility-food-per-agent} shows that the number of deaths decreases and average utility increases as we increase the amount of food available.

> When the ratio of food to agent is greater than 9, the agents are able to self-organise within 100 days, and typically do so within 70 days. When food availability was less than this, the agents did not achieve self-organisation. However it was interesting to observe that more treaties were accepted than rejected. This shows that the agents recognise the need to self-organise and are willing to make attempts to do so. It is possible that they did not achieve self-organisation because agents died too quickly to reach agreements among enough agents for this to be successful.

Reviewer: Just to make it clear we're talking about when the food is too low

```suggestion
When the ratio of food to agent is greater than 9, the agents are able to self-organise within 100 days, and typically do so within 70 days. When food availability was less than this, the agents did not achieve self-organisation. However it was interesting to observe that more treaties were accepted than rejected. This shows that the agents recognise the need to self-organise and are willing to make attempts to do so. It is possible that they did not achieve self-organisation in this case because agents died too quickly to reach agreements among enough agents for this to be successful.
```

              ymajorgrids=true,
              xmajorgrids=true,
              grid style=dashed,
            ]
            \addplot[mark=*,red]
                coordinates{
                    (15, 0.077)
                    (14, 0.074)
                    (13, 0.072)
                    (12, 0.066)
                    (11, 0.067)
                    (10, 0.061)
                    (9, 0.057)
                    (8, 0.054)
                    (7, 0.049)
                    (6, 0.04)
                    (5, 0.039)
                    (4, 0.026)
                    (3, 0.022)
                    (2, 0.013)
                    (1, 0.003)
                }; \label{leg:team5-food-per-agent-utility}
                \addlegendimage{/pgfplots/refstyle=leg:team5-food-per-agent-deaths}\addlegendentry{Deaths}
                \addlegendimage{/pgfplots/refstyle=leg:team5-food-per-agent-utility}\addlegendentry{Average utility}
            \end{axis}
            \end{tikzpicture}
    \end{minipage}
    \caption{Number of Deaths and Average Utility vs Available Food Per Agent}
    \label{fig:team5-deaths-utility-food-per-agent}
\end{figure}

\subsubsection*{Number of Agents}

> Through experimenting with the Team 5 agent, it was found that the variable with the largest effect on the likelihood of self-organisation being achieved was the number of agents present in the tower. This is likely an effect of the agent strategy relying heavily on communicating and establishing relationships with other agents. Having more agents in the tower means that it takes longer to form opinions of every other agent, and the likelihood of being reshuffled next to other agents that you have already seen decreases as the number of agents increases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Through experimenting with the Team 5 agent, it was found that the variable with the largest effect on the likelihood of self-organisation was the number of agents present in the tower. This is likely an effect of the agent strategy relying heavily on communicating and establishing relationships with other agents. Having more agents in the tower means that it takes longer to form opinions of every other agent, and the likelihood of being reshuffled next to other agents that you have already seen decreases as the number of agents increases.
```

After making this observation, it was decided that it would be interesting to investigate how long it takes for varying numbers of Team 5 agents to self-organise for a given amount of food available. Table \ref{tab:team5-exp-num-agents} shows the results of varying the number of agents in the tower, with the food per agent ratio set to 2.

\begin{table}
    \centering
    \begin{tabular}{|c|c|c|}
        \hline
        \textbf{Number of agents} & \textbf{Days to organise} & \textbf{Deaths before self-organisation}\\
        \hline
        $<$10 & 0 & 0 \\
        \hline
        15 & 80 & 46 \\
        \hline
        15 & 0 & 0 \\
        \hline
        17 & 0 & 0 \\
        \hline
        18 & 45 & 22\\
        \hline
        18 & 95 & 79 \\
        \hline
        20 & \multicolumn{2}{c|}{No organisation in 500 days}\\
        \hline
        20 & 242 & 226 \\
        \hline
        25 & \multicolumn{2}{c|}{No organisation in 700 days}\\
        \hline
        
    \end{tabular}
    \caption{The number of deaths and number of days required for Team 5 agents to self-organise}
    \label{tab:team5-exp-num-agents}

> \end{table}

Reviewer: I'm probably missing something, but this table confuses me: why the two rows per agent count? I presume there's a reason for this but it should be in the caption and description paragraph.

> The results show that the length of time it takes for the agents to organise is very variable: randomness plays a large factor due to the many random variables present in the simulation, such as an agent's floor and its leadership threshold. For organisation to occur, agents who are more likely to become leaders need to become less selfish and be reshuffled high up in the tower. This will enable them to send treaties to surrounding agents. The surrounding agnets must view them favourably enoguh to accept the treaties they receive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The results show that the length of time it takes for the agents to organise is very variable: randomness plays a large factor due to the many random variables present in the simulation, such as an agent's floor and its leadership threshold. For organisation to occur, agents who are more likely to become leaders need to become less selfish and be reshuffled high up in the tower. This will enable them to send treaties to surrounding agents. The surrounding agnets must also view them favourably enoguh to accept the treaties they receive.
```

> It was found that, with the food per agent ratio set to 2, there appeared to be a threshold value of approximately 18 agents were organisation was far less likely to occur within the early days of the tower. Further testing showed that this threshold increases with the amount of food available per agent. Figure \ref{fig:team5-20agents-2food} shows the results of a simulation where 20 agents managed to organised themselves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It was found that, with the food per agent ratio set to 2, there appeared to be a threshold value of approximately 18 agents where organisation was far less likely to occur within the early days of the tower. Further testing showed that this threshold increases with the amount of food available per agent. Figure \ref{fig:team5-20agents-2food} shows the results of a simulation where 20 agents managed to organise themselves.
```

                    (90, 31)
                    (100, 33)
                };
            \end{axis}
            \end{tikzpicture}
            \caption{Average age upon death vs length of simulation. Points with age 0 mean no agent died during those simulations.}
            \label{fig:team5-exp-sim-length}
    \end{minipage}
    \hspace{0.05\textwidth}
    \begin{minipage}{0.45\textwidth}
        \begin{tikzpicture}
            \begin{axis}[
                width=\textwidth,
                ymin=0,
                xmin=0,
                xlabel=Food per agent,
                ylabel=Deaths,
                ymajorgrids=true,
                xmajorgrids=true,
                grid style=dashed,
            ]
            \addplot[mark=*,blue]
                coordinates{
                    (3, 7)
                    (4, 6)
                    (5, 2)
                    (6, 0)
                    (7, 1)
                };
            \end{axis}
            \end{tikzpicture}
            \caption{Number of deaths vs food per agent ratio}
            \label{fig:team5-exp-food-per-agent}
    \end{minipage}
\end{figure}
\ToDo{Check this result: is it actually true?}

> Figure \ref{fig:team5-exp-sim-length} shows the relationship between the length of the simulation and the average age of Team 5 agents when they die: the graph shows a positive trend of increasing average age, implying that Team 5 agents perform better over time.

Reviewer: I think these simulations could do with re-running if we can? It looks like there's an anomoly at 80 days which would probably go away with some more averaging. This would hopefully make the positive trend more clear

\subsubsection*{Food Per Agent}

> Figure \ref{fig:team5-exp-food-per-agent} shows the effect of increasing the amount of food on the platform: the graph trends downwards as expected, showing that more food reduces the number of deaths.

Reviewer: tbf same for this and the food per agent graph??

> \subsubsection*{Reshuffle Period}

Reviewer: empty section?

%         \hline
%     \end{tabular}
%     \caption{Results of a Tower consisting of Team 5 and Team 3 agents}
%     \label{tab:team5-team5-team3}
% \end{table}

% \subsubsection*{Foes}
% Team 5 does not perform well with either Team 6 or Team 2. When paired with Team 6, the Team 6 agents die often and have less than half the lifespan of the Team 5 agents. This issue persists with increased amount of food on the platform.

% When paired with Team 2, the Team 2 agent has significantly fewer deaths than the Team 5 agent and also has a longer lifespan. These results suggest that this agent pairing is unable to self-organise, with the potentially more selfless Team 5 agents left to starve by the Team 2 agents. This is because the Team 2 agents do not communicate except to ask for the HP of other agents.

% The Team 5 agent is least compatible with random agents (i.e. agents which take a random amount of food). The total number of deaths is highest and average age upon death is lowest with this pairing. The life expectancy also does not improve with more food on the platform.

\subsection*{Self-Organisation With Other Agents}

> The overall aim within the tower is for agents to self-organise and create a stable society. Tests were run to investigate how compatible the Team 5 agent is with each of the agents designed by each of the other teams. Simulations were run with a tower consisting of Team 5 agents and one other agent type, with seven agents each and five food available per agent, to see whether they could self-organise within 100 days. These results are shown in Table \ref{tab:team5-self-org-agents}

Reviewer: uncut the above commented section? or if this is for space then at least another paragraph of analysis needed here

Author: I think the uncommented bit says the same information in a more concise manner imo

\begin{table}
    \centering
    \begin{tabular}{|c|c|c|c|c|c|}
        \hline
        \textbf{Agent type} & \textbf{Team 2} & \textbf{Team 3}& \textbf{Team 4} & \textbf{Team 6} & \textbf{Team 7}\\
        \hline
        Team 5 deaths & 25 & 5 & 0 & 25 & 12 \\
        \hline
        Other agent deaths & 19 & 5 & 0 & 35 & 8 \\
        \hline
        Organisation? & NO & 67 days & 0 days & NO & 62 days \\
        \hline
    \end{tabular}
    \caption{Team 5 interactions with other agents}
    \label{tab:team5-self-org-agents}
\end{table}

\section{Conclusion}\label{sec:team5-conclusion}

> The Team 5 agent is capable of achieving self-organisation within the tower provided the simulation parmaeters are not too strict. A large number of agents within the tower greatly inhibits the agent's ability to self-organise, but they are capable of organising when there is the food per agent ratio is at least 2, for low agent numbers. This demonstrates the reliance on communication and sharing of knowledge in order to solve the problem of long-term survival in the tower.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Team 5 agent is capable of achieving self-organisation within the tower provided the simulation parameters are not too strict. A large number of agents within the tower greatly inhibits the agent's ability to self-organise, but for low agent numbers, they are capable of organising when the food per agent ratio is at least 2. This demonstrates the reliance on communication and sharing of knowledge in order to solve the problem of long-term survival in the tower.
```

> During the presentation for this coursework, Professor Pitt compared the Team 5 agent's strategy to theory from Ober, who stated that ``alignment is an epistemic process, predicated on the right people having and using the right information in the right context'' \cite{ober_athens}. We had not considered this theory when designing our agent, however in a sort-of convergent evolution we observed this in the randomeness and large variation in the Team 5 agent's ability to self-organise, and the events that need to take place for this to be successful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the presentation for this coursework, Professor Pitt compared the Team 5 agent's strategy to theory from Ober, who stated that ``alignment is an epistemic process, predicated on the right people having and using the right information in the right context'' \cite{ober_athens}. We had not considered this theory when designing our agent, however in a sort of convergent evolution we observed this in the randomeness and large variation in the Team 5 agent's ability to self-organise, and the conditions required for this to be successful.
```

An agent will maintain a low HP only if it is confident that other agents will allow it to survive by leaving enough food, through the signing of treaties to build trust. A tower that consists solely of Team 5 agents would require those at the top to be willing to decrease their own short-term satisfaction in order to give the best chance of survival for all agents, and trust others to do the same upon reshuffling.

Section \ref{sec:team5-overview} provides an overview of the agent's parameters and strategy, Section \ref{sec:team5-messaging} describes the agent's communication strategy, Section \ref{sec:team5-memory} describes how the agent stores its social network and how it judges other agents, and Section \ref{sec:team5-treaties} describes how the Team 5 agent utilises treaties. Finally, Section \ref{sec:team5-experimentation} contains analysis of this agent including how it performs in a tower consisting of itself alone as well as together with other agent types and Section \ref{sec:team5-conclusion} provides summarising remarks regarding the implementation of this agent type.

\section{Agent Overview}
\label{sec:team5-overview}

> \ToDo{Give better description of Run function}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

    % \hline
    Leadership           & A threshold value required for the agent to propose treaties\\
    \hline
    Social Memory        & Stores the information the agent learns about other agents, as well as its opinion of them (see Table \ref{tab:team5-memory})\\
    \hline
    Surrounding Agents   & A list of the agent's neighbours\\
    \hline
\end{tabular}
\caption{The personality parameters of Team 5's agent}
\label{tab:team5-personality}
\end{table}

At the start of each tick, the agent checks to see if it has received any messages and if so, will respond to these\footnote{Note that an agent can receive and respond to only one message per tick.}. The agent then sends out messages to other agents. The mechanism for messaging is described in Section \ref{sec:team5-messaging}.

\section{Messaging}\label{sec:team5-messaging}
Collaboration between different agents operating in a system requires communication. The motivation for messaging is to improve the agent's understanding of its surroundings, enable building of mutually beneficial relationships, and introduce collaboration and argeement between parties.

\subsection*{Strategy}\label{sec:team5-messaging-strategy}

> The agent's approach to messaging is to adopt a ``passive observer'' role focussed on gathering information about other agents to organise itself with these agents in the tower. With more information at its disposal, the agent can make more informed decisions to balance its own individual utility with the collective utility of the agents in the tower.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The agent's approach to messaging is to adopt a ``passive observer'' role focussed on gathering information about other agents to organise itself with these agents in the tower. With more information at its disposal, the agent can make informed decisions to balance its own individual utility with the collective utility of the agents in the tower.
```

The order of sent messages is:
\begin{enumerate}
    \item Ask for an agent's HP
    \item Ask for an agent's previous food intake
    \item Ask for an agent's intended food intake
\end{enumerate}
The Team 5 agent first targets the agent immediately below it, then the agent immediately above, then two floors below, and finally the agent two floors above.

In addition to sending out requests for information, the agent also accepts any state messages it receives even if it did not ask for them, so that it can gain the largest amount of knowledge that it can. This includes messages where the agent is not the intended recipient: in this case the Team 5 agent will read the information contained in the message before passing it on.

\section{Social Memory}\label{sec:team5-memory}

> The agent stores the information gained from communication in its `memory': the information stored by this data structure is shown in Table \ref{tab:team5-memory}.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The agent stores the information gained from communication in its `memory': the information stored in this data structure is shown in Table \ref{tab:team5-memory}.
```

\subsection*{Favour}\label{sec:team5-favour}
The favour metric quantifies the agent's opinion of others in the tower. It is bounded between 0 and 10, and in a single tick can either increase by 1, decrease by 3, or stay the same:

\begin{align*}
    \texttt{hpScoreOther} &= -1 \times \frac{\texttt{otherHP}^{1.7} \times \texttt{foodTaken}^{1.3}}{\texttt{maxHP}^3}\\
    \texttt{hpScoreSelf} &= \frac{\texttt{ownHP}^{1.7}\times\texttt{ownAttemptFood}^{1.3}}{\texttt{maxHP}^3}\\
    \texttt{judgement} &= 100 \times (\texttt{hpScoreOther} + \texttt{hpScoreSelf})\\
    \texttt{unboundedFavour} &= \begin{cases}
        \texttt{originalFavour} + 1, \quad\hfill \texttt{judgement} &> 0.075\\
        \texttt{originalFavour} + \max{\left(\frac{\texttt{judgement}}{2}, -3\right)}, \quad\hfill\texttt{judgement} &< -2
    \end{cases}\\
    \texttt{favour} &= \begin{cases}
        0, \quad\hfill \texttt{unboundedFavour} &< 0\\
        \texttt{unboundedFavour}, \quad 0 \leq \texttt{unboundedFavour} &\leq 10\\
        10, \quad\hfill \texttt{unboundedFavour} &> 10
    \end{cases}\\
\end{align*}

> We have designed the favour calculation in such a way that means positive changes in favour occur slowly while negative changes in favour can occur quickly; this is to reflect human behaviour regarding trust, which tends to be lost more quickly than it is gained.

Reviewer 6: Just as a suggestion, if there is a paper you can quote on this I think Pitt would like it

Reviewer 4: I'm unable to find a paper to back up this claim, probably best that we remove it in that case.
```suggestion
We have designed the favour calculation in such a way that means positive changes in favour occur slowly while negative changes in favour can occur quickly; this was done to design an agent which builds trust slowly overtime but will distrust at a rate reflective of the severity of another's actions.
```

    \item It makes a request based on low HP, low amounts of food on the platform, or a low floor, as in these conditions the agent will already be desperate for survival, so will not want to be further constrained by a treaty.
    \item It makes a request based on HP where the threshold is within the ``weak'' or ``critical'' HP bands, as this means the agent could become critical or die as a result of following the treaty.
    \item It would require the agent to take less food than is required to avoid entering the ``critical'' HP band.
\end{itemize}
If the treaty does not meet any of the above conditions, the \texttt{decision} value is then computed as:
\[\texttt{decision} = 6 - \texttt{selfishness} + \texttt{proposerFavour} - \frac{\texttt{treatyDuration}}{3}\]

This calculation is based on the following considerations:
\begin{itemize}
    \item Selfish agents will always be less likely to sign treaties
    \item The proposing agent is more likely to be trusted if the receiving agent views them more favourably

>     \item Longer treaties are viewed more negatively because factors such as the receiving agent's opinion of the proposer and the agent's selfishness can change over time, meaning the same treaty could be viewed less favourably in future. Therefore, the agent should avoid constraining its actions to satisfy an agent of which it could form a negative opinion.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    \item Longer treaties are viewed more negatively because factors such as the receiving agent's opinion of the proposer and the agent's selfishness can change over time, meaning the same treaty could be viewed less favourably in the future. Therefore, the agent should avoid constraining its actions to satisfy an agent of which it could form a negative opinion.
```

\begin{equation}\label{eq:team5-treaty-hp-threshold}
    \texttt{hpThreshold} = \texttt{aimHP} - \frac{\texttt{aimHP} - \texttt{WeakLevel}}{10}\times\left(\texttt{leadership} - \texttt{leadershipThreshold}\right)
\end{equation}

It was decided that of the available treaty types, treaties that limit HP were the most suitable for composing resource management-based agreements between agents. This is because treaties based directly on quantities of food make it difficult to construct treaties that control each agent's food intake in a fair manner. While food is the main reseource in the tower, we can view HP as a secondary resource given that it is directly affected by food and reflects the allocation of this main resource.

\section{Experimentation}\label{sec:team5-experimentation}
This section focuses on the agent's performance and how this varies with changes in its environment.

\subsection*{Homogeneous Tower Experiments}

> To evaluate the self-organisation abilities of the Team 5 agent, simulations were run with the agent in variations of a homogeneous tower (i.e. a tower that contains agents of only one type). The agent has been evaluated on three main metrics:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To evaluate the self-organisation abilities of the Team 5 agent, simulations were run with the agent in variations of a homogeneous tower, i.e., a tower that contains agents of only one type. The agent has been evaluated on three main metrics:
```

                    (8, 13)
                    (9, 16)
                }; \label{leg:team5-age}
            \addlegendentry{Age}
            \end{axis}
            
            \begin{axis}[
                width=\textwidth,
              axis y line*=right,
              axis x line=none,
              ymin=0,
              ylabel=Number of deaths,
              ymajorgrids=true,
              xmajorgrids=true,
              grid style=dashed,
            ]
            \addplot[mark=*,red]
                coordinates{
                    (1, 1)
                    (2, 1)
                    (3, 0)
                    (4, 2)
                    (5, 3)
                    (6, 0)
                    (7, 5)
                    (8, 2)
                    (9, 3)
                }; \label{leg:team5-deaths}
            \addlegendimage{/pgfplots/refstyle=leg:team5-age}\addlegendentry{Age}
            \addlegendimage{/pgfplots/refstyle=leg:team5-deaths}\addlegendentry{Deaths}
            \end{axis}
            \end{tikzpicture}
    \end{minipage}
    \caption{Average age upon death and number of deaths vs reshuffle period}
    \label{fig:team5-exp-reshuffle-period}
\end{figure}

> % \subsection*{Comparing Team 5 with Other Agent Teams: Friend or Foe?}
> % The next batch of experiments involved simulations with 10 Team 5 agents and 10 agents from another team to measure performance with other teams individually. Each of these experiments were run for 100 days, with the food per agent ratio varied to see how each agent type works together with varying food supply.
> 
> % We have highlighted those agents that work well with the Team 5 agent (``friends'') and those that do not (``foes''), given that one of the aims is to minimise the number of deaths in the tower. The chosen performance metrics are therefore the number of deaths and the average age upon death.
> 
> % \subsubsection*{Friends}
> % Team 5 has the best survival rate when sharing the Tower with Team 4; simulations showed that with a food per agent ratio of 7 or 8, no deaths occurred within 100 days. Even when this ratio was 6 food per agent, there were only five deaths: three from Team 5 and two from Team 4, with average ages of 11.6 and 12.5 days upon death, respectively.
> 
> % Team 5 also performs well with Team 7 and Team 3; these results are shown in Tables \ref{tab:team5-team5-team7} and \ref{tab:team5-team5-team3}, respectively.
> 
> % \begin{table}
> %     \centering
> %     \begin{tabular}{|c|c|c|c|}
> %         \hline
> %         \textbf{Food per agent ratio} & \textbf{6} & \textbf{7} & \textbf{8}\\
> %         \hline
> %         Team 5 deaths and average age upon death       & 4, 46 & 0, 0 & 0, 0\\
> %         \hline
> %         Team 7 deaths and average age upon death       & 4, 19.5 & 3, 25 & 1, 22\\
> %         \hline
> %     \end{tabular}
> %     \caption{Results of a Tower consisting of Team 5 and Team 7 agents}
> %     \label{tab:team5-team5-team7}
> % \end{table}
> 
> % \begin{table}
> %     \centering
> %     \begin{tabular}{|c|c|c|c|}
> %         \hline
> %         \textbf{Food per agent ratio} & \textbf{6} & \textbf{7} & \textbf{8}\\
> %         \hline
> %         Team 5 deaths and average age upon death       & 11, 41 & 7, 63 & 1, 15\\
> %         \hline
> %         Team 3 deaths and average age upon death       & 8, 45 & 0, 0 & 0, 0 \\
> %         \hline
> %     \end{tabular}
> %     \caption{Results of a Tower consisting of Team 5 and Team 3 agents}
> %     \label{tab:team5-team5-team3}
> % \end{table}
> 
> % \subsubsection*{Foes}
> % Team 5 does not perform well with either Team 6 or Team 2. When paired with Team 6, the Team 6 agents die often and have less than half the lifespan of the Team 5 agents. This issue persists with increased amount of food on the platform.
> 
> % When paired with Team 2, the Team 2 agent has significantly fewer deaths than the Team 5 agent and also has a longer lifespan. These results suggest that this agent pairing is unable to self-organise, with the potentially more selfless Team 5 agents left to starve by the Team 2 agents. This is because the Team 2 agents do not communicate except to ask for the HP of other agents.
> 
> % The Team 5 agent is least compatible with random agents (i.e. agents which take a random amount of food). The total number of deaths is highest and average age upon death is lowest with this pairing. The life expectancy also does not improve with more food on the platform.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

```

\subsection*{Self-Organisation With Other Agents}
The overall aim within the tower is for agents to self-organise and create a stable society. Tests were run to investigate how compatible the Team 5 agent is with each of the agents designed by each of the other teams. Simulations were run with a tower consisting of Team 5 agents and one other agent type, with seven agents each and five food available per agent, to see whether they could self-organise within 100 days. These results are shown in Table \ref{tab:team5-self-org-agents}.

> Team 5 is able to self-organise with Teams 3, 4, and 7, and can do so immediately with Team 4. Team 5 does not perform well wither either Teams 2 or 6; the agents were not able to self-organise within 100 days, resulting in continual deaths.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Team 5 is able to self-organise with Teams 3, 4, and 7, and can do so immediately with Team 4. Team 5 does not perform well with either Teams 2 or 6; the agents were not able to self-organise within 100 days, resulting in continual deaths.
```
